Title: Play, Teach, Learn
Date: 2021-01-15 10:20
Category: Blog
Tags: blog
Slug: Play-Teach-Learn
Authors: Dave Pinkawa
Summary: Having struggled to keep the focus on particular technical training or topics for some time now, I've been boiling down my needs to a simple but personal system that works. 

# Play -> Teach -> Learn

I've been formulating this system of Play / Teach / Learn as my means of motivation and focus over the last few years. Did not realize until sitting down to write this blog post that there is a 'Teach, Play, Learn!' series of books about how to play and interact with children. Might have to check that out (new parent and all) but in this post, I just wanted to comment on my system as an adult looking to maintain focus on short and long-term goals, while fulfilling what I find are my personal vital needs.

## Play

Honestly, this was the hardest part for me to give-in but has been very gratifying both professionally and on a personal level. Being in IT there are so many new technologies on a monthly/yearly basis that it feels difficult to keep your head above water. On top of that, being a new father I want to spend meaningful time exploring the world with my child and being focused on that time.

What I have done to help myself focus on these goals, is just set aside some 'Play' time in the calendar. I use the app Todoist as an electronic bullet journal, and I just set up a few re-occurring time frames that I dedicate to each of the 3 tenets in this little system of mine. It sounds a little ridiculous that I need to put this time aside, but this whole remote work thing has made disconnecting from work all the more difficult. This helps.

On a personal level, dedicating at least 2 hours of time to the family after-work but before the little one goes to bed has been liberating in and of itself, and I consider it Play. I think this is what everyone means by work-life balance because I have a clean conscious knowing that I've given myself this time _every day_ to spend with the whole family and just soak it all in. I don't allow my thoughts to dwell on work or some new product I want to test out in the lab, instead it's just a fun time and try and focus on being in the moment.

Once the little one is asleep the professional-play side does kick back in. I try to limit this to 2-3 times a week, and only after the whole house is asleep. Some people like to wake up early and write, learn, etc. I'm a night owl, so when the house is silent for 1-2 hours I'm focused on a few different things. 

Either I've found a neat product to test in my lab or tinker with. Ansible, PowerShell, Python, Jenkins, Grafana, or even just messing with different Hypervisors have been topics to indulge in previously. A new one lately has been web scraping all of the local property tax data for our county and running some data analysis on it (future post and site!).

The other days of the week, when I'm not allowing my tech-side to take over that at-night Playtime, I  just play. I'm a big PC and Nintendo Switch fan, and I enjoy reading for leisure. Whereas I see some new parents will beat themselves up for playing games or reading alone, I enjoy it and don't beat myself up about spending these quiet personal moments doing it. These moments are fulfilling hobbies and give me more mental energy, and are not draining. It's a win-win because I like hobbies that don't feel like a drag, don't you?

And it doesn't need to just be video games or tech deep diving, I've recently picked up the hardware to build an arcade cabinet (future blog post!) that I'll be putting together. It has been a long-time desire of mine to get an arcade cabinet up and running in the basement, and a pandemic is good an excuse as any to give it a shot!

## Teach

This particular pillar of P/T/L is almost entirely professional for me right now.

I enjoy teaching in a professional capacity. I love technology as a whole. Being able to share some of this passion and knowledge with others is an opportunity that appears quite frequently when you keep an eye out for it. 

This is why I make it a point to watch for or create a teaching opportunity at least once a day. It could be writing and sharing a knowledge base article for work, teaching my upcoming CompTIA Harper College remote course, creating a TechSnips video, or just spending some time on a Zoom or via messaging system helping answer questions. Being a technical resource like this is not something that drains my energy, but instead is fulfilling for me. It took a while to recognize that in myself, that determination between 'draining' and 'energizing' situations. A good deal of inward reflection for that, and I imagine it will evolve or change entirely over time.

I also have a book at about 30% rough-draft status right now that is also fulfilling my 'Teach' pillar. There are no high aspirations for the book, other than the hope future IT professionals can get a head-start and insights on their careers by giving it a read. 

So yeah, because teaching is a fulfilling part of life for me, it's something I try and set both daily and monthly goals on. Daily being the 'Look for someone in need of help', and monthly being 'Write a few pages' or 'Record a TechSnips tutorial.' Over time the smaller goals all coalesce into a larger and fulfilling success. 

## Learn

This last part is not so much an action-item for me, as it's a result of the first two components of my process. I find that when presented with questions or issues that other people are dealing with but need assistance, both sites can learn in the process. When a problem gets presented to me, even without complete knowledge of the software or services involved, I am energized by hunting for solutions and learning on-the-fly.

I don't often find myself energized by sitting down and dedicating my focus towards a single topic any longer. Go back 5+ years ago, I was a sponge and certification-study heavy with my focus. I felt like I needed to catch up and never stop. There was never a point of total burnout reached by doing this, but in retrospect it doesn't feel like it was completely healthy either.

With nearing a decade of IT work under my belt, having played with so many different technologies, and taught others along the way I have new ways to get that energy and focus activated. That is,  being entrusted by co-workers, other teams, or whole departments to help solve problems provides that sense of fulfillment. Both that I am trusted to approach unknown situations and take the reigns to completion, and that this entire process provides a learning experience for everyone involved, makes for an all-around enjoyable opportunity.

## End

Again, this isn't some revolutionary system. Everyone has different motivations and means to keep focused. For me, if something that I'm hoping to 'Play' with feels like a chore and is draining my energy, then there are many other options or technologies that might not feel that way and try something new. 

I have tried to boil down how I  keep my focus and energy levels up into these 3 pillars: Play / Teach / Learn. I've been using it for probably a year now, and I feel a lot less stressed while continuing to be focused and successful.

No wisdom to pass on here, other than finding what core values or fulfilling things you experience in life, and try to make them part of a routine. It can do wonders for keeping your motivation up, by focusing on the things that make you feel accomplished. 