Title: Just a Regular Update
Date: 2021-04-11 10:20
Category: Blog
Tags: general
Slug: just-a-regular-update
Authors: Dave Pinkawa
Summary: Not much going on, just want to get back in the flow of writing

# Pandemic Status Check

All is well on the pandemic front for us. By working for the community college, was able to get vaccinated in a slightly earlier phase. There is some peace of mind with having even just the first shot.

Teaching this Spring semester went well. It was definitely stressful teaching 2 nights a week, and fully remote for a class that benefits with at least a hyrbid-approach. I posted about what my remote teaching setup would be earlier in the year, and I'm happy to say it worked very well. Streaming the HDMI out from my camera to WebEx allowed me to have a top-down view of my desk, showcase hardware pieces, and try to bridge the gap of being a remotely taught class.

Later this year the class should be returning to a hybrid approach. So while my camera work was fun to set up, it's not a direct replacement for being hands-on with this hardware as a student. I'm looking forward to seeing students face-to-face (safely and distantly) to provide them the hands-on experience for the CompTIA course once again.

## TechSnips is Still Going

In addition to my remote teaching with Harper, I have also taken to completing a handful of videos for the group TechSnips. It's fun diving into some new piece of technology of which I have only a tenuous grasp of know-how, and taking a deep look into it to create a video. 

The old diatribe of 'trial by fire' lightly applies here, mostly because I have nice distant deadlines to be able to tinker and perfect the presentations. But the same sentiment applies, since there is at least some pressure from the deadline to keep me focused.

Most recently it was a bunch of Docker and Office 365 videos, we'll see what else comes down the pipeline soon.

## Gaming for Stress Relief

I picked up the early-access game Valheim recently to play with some people from work. This game is simply amazing. The physics, buildling UI/UX, and random world generation makes for a unique experience. Where Minecraft kicked off the genre of survival and crafting, Valheim has rekindled my interests by having a more modern visual asthetic while also have a defined progression path with world bosses.

While it's still in early access, I've put in nearly 100 hours so far over the last 2 months. Building, sailing, hunting and gathering are a lot of fun, and doing so with a group of co-workers makes for an even more fun time.

## That's all folks

I'll be tinkering with Kubernetes on a new lab host I picked up (will probably post about my weird lab setup in the future). The Ansible AWX project is moving to a Kubernetes-only deployment method, so the time has come to at least learn and run the basics on-top of my regular VMware stack.

The PMI-ACP certification for project management skills has also entered my radar. Not sure it'll come up in the blog, but it's a skillset that is increasingly necessary for my position being both the project owner and engineer.

Anyways, was good to get some stuff down for the blog. As always, it'll be sporadic, but at least that's consistent! 

-Dave