Title: Python Project Fun
Date: 2021-04-21 10:20
Category: Blog
Tags: python
Slug: python-projects-django-1
Authors: Dave Pinkawa
Summary: Trying to figure out some neat Python projects to work on some new skills, landed on Python Django!

# Brushing up on Python

I have been a huge fan of Python for years now, but without a consistent outlet for actually putting it to use, it has grown stagnant as a skillset. My wife has been looking at starting an Etsy store for some of her hobby projects, and to accompany it, what better than a personal blog site?

Unlike this blog of mine, which is generated as static sites with the Python Pelican project via Github pushes (Which I'm pretty sure isn't user-friendly for my wife to manage long-term), I decided upon Django. The built-in admin portal and niceties are exactly what I'm looking at providing from a customization perspective.

# Small bites

Rather than jump in head-first with tutorials (and the pitfalls of following nothing but tutorials), I'm dedicating my time to learning a few new things simultaneously here. But only do so a few small steps at a time.

Goal: Django for a small blog

* Separate Development and Production versions
* Hosting on Microsoft Azure with a serverless App Service
* Learning PostgreSQL databases (enough to be dangerous)
* User Experience mapping (Whiteboarding the user flows)
* Automate the whole deployment process with an Ansible Playbook and Github Actions

The Microsoft Azure piece has turned into a few days of learning already. I got the barebones project running locally, and wanted to push it to what will be my 'Production' endpoint. Unfortunately, there were quite a few 'gotchas' along the way for pushing to Azure, but it's mostly ironed out now. It will take a bit more tinkering to get to the Ansible-playbook automated deployment process (especially for steps that require running the Django manage.py database migrations in the App Service), but having something up and running was a great 'A-ha!' moment the other night when it all clicked.

If this project goes well, the site should be up within a few weeks of additional learning and tweaking. Once the first version is live, it will be fun to iterate on that final version, and get my wife up and running with her Etsy site!

Will hopefully be back with some more technical fun/know-how, as this project comes along.

Take care, everyone!

-Dave