Title: Hot Diggity Dog
Date: 2020-12-16 10:20
Category: Blog
Tags: blog
Slug: github-actions-with-python-pelican
Authors: Dave Pinkawa
Summary: Got this Python Pelican thing sorted out with Github Actions and Azure Blob Storage!

### Well that took a while

It was a bit of a crash course for me, getting used to new Azure Blob storage features for hosting a static website. It's not the most intuitive thing, but here is a breakdown of what ended up working:

  *  Got Google Domains verified with my Azure CDN
  *  Setup Pelican with the Flex theme (isn't it pretty?)
  *  Worked on some local development to make sure it looked good
  *  Got it uploaded to a Github Repository (public @ https://github.com/davepinkawa/dave.pinkawa.us) and learned about .gitignore to keep things looking organized
  *  Tested manually copying the Output folder to my $web Azure blob container to make sure the CDN could server up HTTPS traffic properly
  *  Configured an Azure CDN rule set to redirect unencrypted traffic over to HTTPS
  *  Setup the GitHub Actions necessary to build the website using Pelican and its dependencies, every time I push to the Main branch

Phew. It took a couple of evenings, but I feel like my knowledge of .yml from tinkering in Ansible made understanding the GitHub Actions syntax much easier. Also didn't realize GitHub had built-in secrets management!

### Going forward

I've got a separate Azure Blob Container setup to host my images on the blog. See the first photo post of our cat, Roary, as it won't be the last time he shows up. My online photography class will be starting up soon, 
so at the very least I will have posted updates for my progress with that. Otherwise, I hope to type up quick things I run into tech-wise, video games, book writing... Really whatever comes to mind.


Anyone have any tips for this whole _writing in markdown_ thing? That's probably my least favorite part so far, but I'll grow into it.